# Boden

Boden allows easy development of truly cross-platform applications.

Supported platforms include:

- iOS
- Android
- Windows Universal (desktop and mobile)
- Windows Win32 (the "old" desktop-style applications)
- macOS
- Linux
- Web (client-side without server components - see below for more information on this)

## Write only once

The mission statement for Boden is to develop the application only once and be able to publish it to ALL platforms.

## Native feel

Behind the scenes, the Boden libraries use the native API on all platforms. That means that Boden apps look and behave
just like applications that were developed specifically for a single platform.

## Full control - no boxing in

The Boden libraries provide a unified interface for developing apps that works the same on all platforms. But
applications are not "boxed in" and can access the operating system directly, if they want to. If Boden does not
provide what you need then you can go around it and write a snippet of platform-specific code to do what you want.

## Technology

Boden applications are written in C++ (using the modern C++11 standard) and are compiled to native code
on most platforms (web applications being the exception here).

Boden embraces modern technologies like automatic memory management and asynchronous I/O and is quite different
than most other C++ frameworks.

## Web applications in C++ ???

One of the supported platforms are client-side web applications that run entirely in the web browser without any server-side
components.

This enables Boden applications to be directly hosted on a website (for example for insteractive previews and trial runs directly
in the browser).

The C++ Boden application code and the Boden framework libraries are compiled to Javascript code (using a real, full featured C++ compiler derived from LLVM / Clang).
The user interface is generated and updated by the Boden framework libraries at runtime, using HTML DOM access.

The result is a web application that looks and behaves just like the app behaves on the other platforms, but runs entirely in the web browser.
It can be embedded in normal websites, or run locally in a desktop browser by opening a local HTML file that is
generated by Boden.




